# Monolithic Architecture 

- In the early days , all the applications developed are all monolithic architecture application.
- Monolithic architecture means whether your frontend , your backend services all of them will be on a single server. Frontend and backend may be on different servers but you can say complete backend services will be on one system , or on one server. 
- Eg, you have a e-commerce application , you order , a reqeust will be send to a server. you add anything inside the cart , then the request will go the same server, you updated your user profile and request again go to same server. or all inventory , managemnet work (if you are selling on e-commerce)again go to same server . so if any unexpected error comes on server, then application will be shut down for everyone even for users. 

- To solve , this problem , engineers decide to divide categories like admin , users , shopkeepeers . Now entire world access application whose reqeust will go to different server. if a shopkeeper is adding item , his request will go to differnet server . Inventory management work will go to differnet server. Admin request go to differnet server. 

- so now entire application backend is divided on different servers. 


- now take this different servers as microserices. Now there are differnet microservices for inventory, product info , cart, reviews.
- now suppose server  for product inventory microservice is down , but user can still add to cart , add reviews , inventory is managed means full application is not down. this is called **microservices architecture**

- now for all these different microservices , we have authN , authZ ,ssl termination , monitoring , alerting,rate limiting etc. for each of microservices

- Now frontend should know all the details to which microservices which request to send . in which servers in which microservices is connected

- So here comes **API Gateway** .  Everthing authN, authZ, ssl termination , monitoring, alerting , rate limiting is put into the api gateway. All these will be done on api gateway 

- now frontend don't send request directly to microservices , it send request to api gateway  and apigateway will read it out that if the inventory needs to be updated then where to send request, if want product info then where to send request , want to add to cart , then where to send the request 


- caching is also done by api gateway , means api gateway will not everytime goes to microservices for data , if data is cached it can give from cached data without going to microservices 
- api gatway will also do load balancing means if there are multiple rquest on single microservice like product info , then api gateway will go to different replica or different servers of this product info 