- Creating vpc means creating a network. Scope of vpc is inside the region . 
- When you create the vpc, first thing it ask is IPv4 CIDR block
- possible values for this ipv4 cidr block can be like you need to give private ip. You can't give public ip here because you are creating your private network
-  When you create a private network , you will have to give a range of private IP. 

- Now see what are possible private IPs:- 


```
10.0.0.0 to 10.255.255.255, 
172.16.0.0 to 172.31.255.255, 
192.168.0.0 to 192.168.255.255.
```

- So you can choose any IPs from these :- 

- let choose this last one range as 192.168.0.0

- But in vpc creation we need to mention cidr block i.e., /24 or /28 etc. 

- so what is this /24 ?
- let suppose we are sitting in any country (let's india ) , now in india we define phone numbers as 12 letters starting from 91 xxxxxxxxxx 

- this 91 is fixed for every india and rest of 10 digits are different 
- Same this thing is CIDR 

- why it is needed?
- As we know , ip addressed are 32 bits , so if cidr block is not there then 

```
minimum ip range will be

00000000.00000000.00000000.00000000   or 0.0.0.0

maximum ip range will be 

11111111.11111111.11111111.11111111 or 255.255.255.255
```

- Now so maximum ip address can be 2^32 (by applying all permutation )
- So as all devices needed ip address so this 2^32 will be less for this
- means , suppose in the same example of phone number if 91 is not fixed then total phone numbers can be 10 ^ 12. So these are limited . 

- Therefore there are 2 solutions for this problem 
- 1st is replace the ipv4 32 range with higher range that is where ipv6 comes into play whose range is 128 bits
- 2nd solution is this CIDR
- there is 3rd solution also which is NAT
### CIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing)
- Now how to decide what will come after 192.168.0.0/24 or 16 or 28 
- So for this first we ask how many servers(computer) we need for the company ?
- So let's say we need 100 servers for my company . So as we know we have 192.168.0.0 , in this last value can go till 255, so our need for 100 computers are fulfilled by just last value . So we can make first 3 as static . So we get range as 192.168.0.0 - 192.168.0.255. Means first computer can have ip address as 192.168.0.0 and last one can have ip address of 192.168.0.255. 
- Also note , some of the ip address in this range will be reserverd
- So if we take first 3 as static (192.168.0.x). so total no. of bits are 8 + 8 + 8 = 24 .
- so now in vpc creation , we can mention ipv4 cidr block as 192.168.0.0/24. so this /24 denotes first 24 bits are static for network id. (analog it with 91 code ) and rest of bits will be different for different hosts

- if we take /16 , then our range will be 192.168.0.0 - 192.168.255.255

- Rest of configuration remain default and create vpc 

